<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<!--copy from r308626 Tue May 4 17:11:51 2004 UTC -->

<article id="windowbehaviour" lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>
<title>Window Behavior</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<author>&Jost.Schenck; &Jost.Schenck.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2015-07-14</date>
<releaseinfo>Plasma 5.3</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>system settings</keyword>
<keyword>actions</keyword>
<keyword>window placement</keyword>
<keyword>window size</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>
<sect1 id="window-behavior">
<title>Window Behavior</title>

<para> In the upper part of this control module you can see several
tabs: <guilabel>Focus</guilabel>, <guilabel>Titlebar Actions</guilabel>,
<guilabel>Window Actions</guilabel>, <guilabel>Moving</guilabel> and
<guilabel>Advanced</guilabel>. In the
<guilabel>Focus</guilabel> panel you can configure how windows gain or
lose focus, &ie; become active or inactive.  Using
<guilabel>Titlebar Actions</guilabel> and <guilabel>Window Actions</guilabel>
you can configure how titlebars and windows react to
mouse clicks. <guilabel>Moving</guilabel> allows you to configure how
windows move and place themselves when started.  The
<guilabel>Advanced</guilabel> options cover some specialized options
like <quote>window shading</quote>.
</para>

<note>
<para>
Please note that the configuration in this module will not take effect
if you do not use &kde;'s native window manager, &kwin;. If you do use a
different window manager, please refer to its documentation for how to
customize window behavior.
</para>
</note>

<sect2 id="action-focus">
<title>Focus</title>

<para>
The <quote>focus</quote> of the desktop refers to the window which the
user is currently working on. The window with focus is often referred to
as the <quote>active window</quote>.
</para>

<para>Focus does not necessarily mean the window is the one at the
front &mdash; this is referred to as <quote>raised</quote>, and
although this is configured here as well, focus and raising of windows
are configured independently.</para>

<sect3 id="action-focus-focuspolicy">
<title>Focus Policy</title>

<para>
There are six methods &kde; can use to determine the current focus:
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Click To Focus</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
A window becomes active when you click into it.
This behaviour is common on other operating systems and likely what you want.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Click To Focus - Mouse Precedence</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This is mostly the same as <guilabel>Click To Focus</guilabel>.
If an active window has to be chosen by the system
(&eg; because the currently active one was closed) 
the window under the mouse is the preferred candidate.
Unusual, but possible variant of <guilabel>Click To Focus</guilabel>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Focus Follows Mouse</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Moving the mouse pointer actively over a normal window activates it. New
windows such as the mini command line invoked with
<keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>F2</keycap></keycombo> will receive the focus,
without you having to point the mouse at them explicitly.
&eg; windows randomly appearing under the mouse will not gain the focus.
Focus stealing prevention takes place as usual.
Think as <guilabel>Click To Focus</guilabel> just without having to actually click.
</para>

<para>
In other window managers, this is sometimes known as <quote>Sloppy focus
follows mouse</quote>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Focus Follows Mouse - Mouse Precedence</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This is mostly the same as <guilabel>Focus Follows Mouse</guilabel>.
If an active window has to be chosen by the system
(&eg; because the currently active one was closed) 
the window under the mouse is the preferred candidate.
Choose this, if you want a hover controlled focus.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Focus Under Mouse</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
The window that happens to be under the mouse pointer becomes active.  If
the mouse is not over a window (for instance, it's on the desktop) the last
window that was under the mouse has focus.  New windows such as the mini
command line invoked with <keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>F2</keycap></keycombo> will
not receive the focus, you must move the mouse over them to type.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Focus Strictly Under Mouse</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Similar to <guilabel>Focus Under Mouse</guilabel>, but even more
strict with its interpretation.  Only the window under the mouse pointer is
active.  If the mouse pointer is not over a window, no window has focus.
New windows such as the mini command line invoked with
<keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>F2</keycap></keycombo> will not receive the focus,
you must move the mouse over them to type. 
</para>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<note><para>Note that <guilabel>Focus Under Mouse</guilabel> and
<guilabel>Focus Strictly Under Mouse</guilabel> prevent certain
features, such as <guilabel>Focus stealing prevention</guilabel> and the 
<keycombo action="simul">&Alt;&Tab;</keycombo>
walk-through-windows dialog, from working properly.</para>
</note>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="action-focus-focusstealin">
<title>Focus stealing prevention level</title>

<para>This option specifies how much KWin will try to prevent unwanted focus 
stealing caused by unexpected activation of new windows.</para> 

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>None</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Prevention is turned off and new windows always become activated.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Low</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Prevention is enabled; when some window does not have support 
for the underlying mechanism and KWin cannot reliably decide whether to activate 
the window or not, it will be activated. This setting may have both worse and better 
results than the medium level, depending on the applications.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Medium</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Prevention is enabled.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>High</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>New windows get activated only 
if no window is currently active or if they belong to the currently active 
application. This setting is probably not really usable when not using mouse 
focus policy.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Extreme</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>All windows must be explicitly activated by the user.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
<para>Windows that are prevented from stealing focus are marked as demanding 
attention, which by default means their taskbar entry will be highlighted. 
This can be changed in the Notifications control module.</para>
</sect3>
  
<sect3 id="action-focus-raisingwindow">
<title>Raising window</title>
<para>
Once you have determined the focus policy, there are the window
raising options.
</para>

<para>With a click to focus policy by default <guilabel>Click raises active window</guilabel> 
is enabled and raise on hover is not available.
</para>

<para>With a hover to focus policy you can alternatively use auto raise.
By placing a mark in front of <guilabel>Raise on hover, delayed by</guilabel>, &kde; can
bring a window to the front if the mouse is over that window for a
specified period of time. You can determine the delay for this option by using the spin box control.
</para>

<tip>
<para>
Setting the delay too short will cause a rapid fire changing of
windows, which can be quite distracting.  Most people will like a delay
of 100-300 ms.  This is responsive, but it will let you slide over the
corners of a window on your way to your destination without bringing
that window to the front.  
</para>
</tip>

<para>
If you do not use auto raise, make sure the
<guilabel>Click raises active window</guilabel> option has a mark in front of it.  You
will not be happy with both auto raise and
<guilabel>Click raise active window</guilabel> disabled, the net effect is that
windows are not raised at all.
</para>

</sect3>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="titlebar-actions">
<title>Titlebar Actions</title>

<para>
In this panel you can configure what happens to windows when a mousebutton is
clicked on their titlebars.
</para>

<sect3 id="action-actions-sec1">
<title>Titlebar double-click</title>

<para>
In this drop down box you can select either
<guilabel>Shade</guilabel>, several variations of
<guilabel>Maximize</guilabel> or <guilabel>Lower</guilabel>,
<guilabel>Close</guilabel> and <guilabel>On All Desktops</guilabel>.
</para>

<para>
Selecting <guilabel>Maximize</guilabel> causes &kde; to maximize the
window whenever you doubleclick on the titlebar. You can further
choose to maximize windows only horizontally or only
vertically.</para>

<para><guilabel>Shade</guilabel>, on the other hand, causes the window to be
reduced to simply the titlebar.  Double clicking on the titlebar again,
restores the window to its normal size.
</para>

<para>Similar options are available for <guilabel>Wheel event</guilabel>.
</para>
<!--FIXME Raise/Lower Shade/Unshade Maximize/Restore Keep Above/Below Move to Previous/Next Desktop Change Opacity -->

<tip>
<para>
You can have windows automatically unshade when you simply place the
mouse over their shaded titlebar. Just check the <guilabel>Enable
hover</guilabel> check box in the <guilabel>Advanced</guilabel> tab of
this module.  This is a great way to reclaim desktop space when you are
cutting and pasting between a lot of windows, for example.
</para>
</tip>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="action-actions-sec2">
<title><guilabel>Titlebar &amp; Frame</guilabel></title>

<para>
This section allows you to determine what happens when you single click
on the titlebar or frame of a window.  Notice that you can have
different actions associated with the same click depending on whether
the window is active or not.
</para>

<para> For each combination of mousebuttons, Active and
Inactive, you can select the most appropriate choice.  The actions are
as follows: </para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Raise</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Will bring the window to the top of the display.  All other windows
which overlap with this one, will be hidden <quote>below</quote> it.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Lower</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Will move this window to the bottom of the display.  This will get the
window out of the way.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Toggle Raise &amp; Lower</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This will raise windows which are not on top, and lower windows which
are already on top.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<!--FIXME missing:
Minimize, Shade, Close
-->

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Nothing</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Just like it says.  Nothing happens.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Operations Menu</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Will bring up a small submenu, where you can choose window related
commands (&ie; Maximize, Minimize, Close, &etc;).
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect3>

<sect3 id="action-actions-maximize-button">
<title><guilabel>Maximize Button</guilabel></title>
<para>
This section allows you to determine the behavior of the three mouse buttons 
onto the maximize button. You have the choice between vertical only, horizontal 
only or both directions.
</para>
</sect3>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="window-actions">
<title>Window Actions</title>

<sect3 id="action-actions-sec3">
<title><guilabel>Inactive Inner Window</guilabel></title>

<para>
This part of the module, allows you to configure what happens when you
click on an inactive window, with any of the three mouse buttons or use
the mouse wheel.
</para>

<para>
Your choices are as follows:
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Activate, Raise &amp; Pass Click</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This makes the clicked window active, raises it to the top of the
display, and passes a mouse click to the application within the window.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Activate &amp; Pass Click</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This makes the clicked window active and passes a mouse click to the
application within the window.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Activate</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This simply makes the clicked window active. The mouse click is not
passed on to the application within the window.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Activate &amp; Raise</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This makes the clicked window active and raises the window to the top of
the display. The mouse click is not passed on to the application within
the window.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<!--FIXME Wheel Scroll, Activate & Scroll, Activate, Raise & Scroll-->

</variablelist>
</sect3>

<sect3 id="action-actions-sec4">
<title><guilabel>Inner Window, Titlebar &amp; Frame</guilabel></title>

<para>
This bottom section, allows you to configure additional actions, when
a modifier key (by default &Meta;) is pressed, and a mouse click is
made on a window.</para>

<para>
Once again, you can select different actions for
<mousebutton>Left</mousebutton>, <mousebutton>Middle</mousebutton> and
<mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> button clicks and the <guilabel>Mouse 
wheel</guilabel>.
</para>

<para>Your choices are:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Move</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Allows you to drag the selected window around the desktop.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Lower</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Will move this window to the bottom of the display.  This will get the
window out of the way.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Nothing</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Just like it says.  Nothing happens.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Raise</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Will bring the window to the top of the display.  All other windows
which overlap with this one, will be hidden <quote>below</quote> it.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Resize</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Allows you to change the size of the selected window.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Toggle Raise &amp; Lower</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This will raise windows which are not on top, and lower windows which
are already on top.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Activate</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Make this window active.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
<!-- FIXME missing:
Activate, Raise &amp; Move
Minimize
Increase Opacity + Decrease Opacity
-->
<!--FIXME
Mouse Wheel has different choices:
Raise/Lower, Shade/Unshade, Maximize/Restore, Keep Above/Below, 
Move to Previous/Next Desktop, Change Opacity
Nothing
-->

</sect3>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="action-moving">
<title>Moving</title>

<sect3>
<title><guilabel>Windows</guilabel></title>
<para>
The options here determine how windows appear on screen when you
are moving them.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Display window geometry when moving or resizing</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Enable this option if you want a window's geometry to be displayed 
while it is being moved or resized. The window position relative to the top-left 
corner of the screen is displayed together with its size.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>

<sect3>
<title><guilabel>Snap Zones</guilabel></title>

<para>The rest of this page allows you to configure the <guilabel>Snap
Zones</guilabel>.  These are like a magnetic field along the side of
the desktop and each window, which will make windows snap alongside
when moved near.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Border snap zone:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>

<para>Here you can set the snap zone for screen borders.  Moving a
window within the configured distance will make it snap to the edge of
the desktop.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Window snap zone:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>

<para>Here you can set the snap zone for windows.  As with screen
borders, moving a window near to another will make it snap to the edge
as if the windows were magnetized.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Center snap zone:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>

<para>Here you can set the snap zone for the screen center, &ie; the 
<quote>strength</quote> of the magnetic field which will make windows snap 
to the center of the screen when moved near it.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Snap windows only when overlapping</guilabel></term>
<listitem>

<para>If checked, windows will not snap together if they are only near
each other, they must be overlapping, by the configured amount or
less.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect3>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="action-advanced">
<title>Advanced</title>

<para>
In the <guilabel>Advanced</guilabel> panel you can do more advanced fine
tuning to the window behavior.
</para>

<variablelist>
<title>Shading</title>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Enable hover</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
If this option is enabled, a shaded window will un-shade automatically
when the mouse pointer has been over the titlebar for some time. Use
the spinbox to configure the delay un-shading.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Placement</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The placement policy determines where a new window will appear
on the desktop.  <guilabel>Minimal Overlapping</guilabel> will try to achieve a minimum
overlap of windows, <guilabel>Cascaded</guilabel> will cascade the
windows, and <guilabel>Random</guilabel> will use a random
position.  <guilabel>Centered</guilabel> will open all new windows in
the center of the screen, and <guilabel>In Top-Left Corner</guilabel> will
open all windows with their top left corner in the top left corner of
the screen.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

<variablelist>
<title>Special Window</title>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Hide utility windows for inactive applications</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>When turned on, utility windows (tool windows, torn-off menus,...) of 
inactive applications will be hidden and will be shown only when the 
application becomes active. Note that applications have to mark the windows 
with the proper window type for this feature to work.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>
