<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article id="desktop" lang="&language;">
<title>Virtual Desktops</title>
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<author>&Jost.Schenck; &Jost.Schenck.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2015-04-09</date>
<releaseinfo>Plasma 5.3</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Systemsettings</keyword>
<keyword>desktop</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="virtual-desktops">

<title>Virtual Desktops</title>

<sect2 id="desktop-number">
<title><guilabel>Desktops</guilabel></title>

<para>&kde; offers you the possibility to have several virtual
desktops. In this tab you can configure the number of desktops, the number of rows in the <guilabel>Pager</guilabel> icon
as well as their names. Just use the input box to adjust the number of
desktops. You can assign names to the desktops by entering text into the
text fields below.</para> 
<!-- not in 5.3
<para>Enable <guilabel>Different widgets for each desktop</guilabel> 
to use independent widgets and wallpapers on each individual desktop.
</para>
-->
</sect2>

<sect2 id="desktop-switching">
<title><guilabel>Switching</guilabel></title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Desktop navigation wraps around</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Enable this option if you want keyboard or active desktop border navigation 
beyond the edge of a desktop to take you to the opposite edge of the new desktop.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Desktop Effect Animation</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Select <guilabel>No Animation</guilabel>, <guilabel>Slide</guilabel>, 
<guilabel>Desktop Cube Animation</guilabel> or <guilabel>Fade Desktop</guilabel>
from the drop down box. If the selected animation has settings options, click on the 
tools icon on the right of the drop down box to launch a configuration dialog. 
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Desktop Switch On-Screen Display</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Enable this option if you want to have an on-screen display for desktop switching. 
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show desktop layout indicators</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Enabling this option will show a small preview of the desktop layout 
indicating the selected desktop.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Shortcuts</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This section displays the configured shortcuts for switching the desktops 
and allows you to edit them.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

<para>Scrolling the mouse wheel over an empty space on the
desktop or on the <guilabel>Pager</guilabel> icon in the panel will change to the next 
virtual desktop numerically, in the direction you scrolled (either up or down).</para>
<para>You can change this default behavior on the page <guilabel>Mouse Actions</guilabel> in 
the <guilabel>Desktop Settings</guilabel> (<keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>D</keycap></keycombo>, 
<keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>S</keycap></keycombo>).</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

</article>
